Alright. I got keynote up here and
let's go ahead and review the assignment
just quickly. Basically, we're gonna set
up the whole back end for our customer.
So we're gonna create the Customer
Domain, DTO object, the Repository, the Mapper
or the Service, and of course, the
Controller. Now, I've gone in and created
all this, except for the CustomerController. I'm gonna walk through a
little tester in the development on that.
I hope you are doing the same. And of
course, we wanna do a Bootstrap class
and initialize that data. So I got most
of the backend implemented. I'm just
gonna do a code review. We'll step
through that and then we'll get into a
little live coding of the Controller.
I'll toggle over to IntelliJ now. And you
can see here, I've set up a Customer
domain. So we do have Customer. It does have
the JPA @Id annotation for the id value.
So it's gonna get generated by the
database. And we only have the two
properties - firstname, lastname. So, let's
go ahead and take a another look at our
API spec. So we just have firstname, lastname. The customer_url, that is a
generated value. So that it's not gonna
exist on the domain. Although, I'm sure
some people would want to code it that
way. We don't wanna be storing the
URL and the database when we're gonna
be generating that on the fly. Depending
on where, of course, we're gonna be
deploying it. So that URL is something
that could change. It's not specific to
that customer. It's specific to the
deployment of your web application.
Alright, so let's see here. Next up, we have
the repository. So far, I haven't had to
implement anything. I'm using the
JpaRepository as an extension. That gives us
paging and stuff. We'll get into that in
a future video. And let's see here. What
else was on our list? So with the DTO,
repository. Looked at the repository. So I
set up the CustomerDTO, so firstname
lastname, and now, we're doing a customerUrl, and then, we also have the list. And
here, I also add convenience. I no args,
all args constructor and we only have the
one property List of CustomerDTO
objects. And that goes to the property of
Customers, which is going to be directly
as our list value here. So that property
will get
display down the list value in our API.
Then, we have our Bootstrap class.
I've gone in and added this. Now, in these
classes in the Bootstrap classes, from
experience, as you get more and more data,
you could do one class per type. But
chances are, as you get a more complex
data model, you're gonna want to
interact with that. So you're gonna
load it in a specific sequence. So if you
do it in different classes, you don't
have any control over that sequence. But let me show you a trick inside of
IntelliJ. Clean up a little code there.
Now, what we can do here, I'd still have
the categories, I created a new method
for that. We can come in here. Go to
Refactor and Extract. We wanna Extract
that type of method. We'll call that
loadCategories, and it can be private. We
don't need that.
And now we can see that IntelliJ did the
refactoring and we have this whole new
loadCategories. So it was everything I
highlighted and it just slurped that out
into a method for us. Makes it a little
cleaner because we're gonna get the run
method here, and we can run that in any
sequence. I'm just gonna preserve our
original sequence, like so. We'll keep
that going. So that's our Bootstrap class.
Now, created a Mapper. So we did Mapper
and we are doing the instance there and
we have one method there, customerToCustomerDTO.
Let's come over here and we'll do a
compile, and we'll show you the
implementation that MapStruct is gonna create of that. So I've gone through
the compiled step, and we can look at the
generated-sources. So now, let's look at
the CustomerMapperImpl, so we can see
that it's mapping the firstname, lastname
and that is going by properties.
I'm able to do that without getting into
configuration because my property names
are the same. Then next up is our service.
So I am coding to interface so we have
getAllCustomers, getCustomerById, and
here's our implementation. This looks a
lot like what we did before. So almost
the same, I am using Java 8 streams
here. And now, in here, I am setting up a
method here, and we are taking it. We
doing a conversion to CustomerDTO and
then we're gonna enhance it with this
API string and the id value. Now, I'd like
to do something a little more elegant
here. I will do a refactoring in the
future of the course but this is good
enough to get us up and running. And then
also here, I am getting the CustomerDTO
when I do a by id and I'm just tossing
an exception here, if it's not found.
Obviously, we wanna do something a
little more elegant than just throw an
exception like that. We probably wanna
create a custom NotFoundException for
our use to turn this into a 404 error. As
right now, to be a 500 error. So this
is bad. It's something else that
we're gonna refactor. But again, good
enough for now. And then finally,
let's take a look at the controller
itself. We can hide Maven. So now,
I just have the RequestMapping here, and
what we can do, let's do this, it's a
little trick that I like to use. I come
down here and let's take a look at the
CategoryController. Now, the CategoryController has almost exact same methods
that we wanna do but we are gonna
do this for the Customer. And when I'm
learning something new and I have
something that's cookie cutter like this,
I like to set up my screen this way so I
can come here. I'm gonna go ahead and
live code this. We wanna respond
with ResponseEntity. This time, it's
gonna be CustomerDTO, that's
getting returned. And that's not
gonna take in anything. This is
just gonna be on the get value. And here,
we can say, return new ResponseEntity.
That's your customerService.getAllCustomers(). I'm gonna come up there.
My mistake here. So this is actually a
ListDTO, that was my mistake.
Oh my mistake.
I got the parenthesis there. I'm creating new
ResponseEntity so that should be happy
now, and let's go ahead and run my test.
You see my list is passing now, but my
getById is not. So let's go implement
that method as well. And now, we wanna
get it by the id value. So we're gonna
say a @PathVariable now. We also need to
set up the mapping there so you can see
down here that just as a reminder I got
that up still. So if we do this
customerService.getCustomerById(id), you can
see how simple that is to implement. Let's go
ahead and run this. We've got an
error there. Let's take a closer look at
that. So we are getting a 404 error. I'm
gonna pause this and debug this real
quick. Let's see what I have. I have the
v1 here but don't have the v1 there. So
v1. So I missed that mapping, and let's
take a look at my controller itself.
api/v1/customers. So let's go
ahead and run this again. getCustomerById
is still failing.
I'm gonna pause this again. I thought it
was the v1 but I was missing. But it's probably
my mistake here, and that is... I miss the
little squiggles.
So without the squiggly side, it's just a
String value. Now I'm saying that that is
a property so that's gonna map out. So
now, let's go ahead and run my test again.
And I actually had a mistake here on the
test that was getByCategory. So
category customers. Sometimes I get them.
Start using them with saying when you
start working with similar terminology
there. Let's go ahead and run these. So
now, both my tests are passing so that is
up and alive. Let's go ahead and run this
inside of Spring Boot without it
starting up. Let's toggle over to
Postman. I'm gonna resize this a little
bit. You can see that is up and working
and there's Michale Weston and Sam Axe.
Let's go ahead and get by 2. Check it's
Sam Axe and so our API is up and working.
So that is everything that we needed to
do to implement the GET for the
customers.